Joshua Benjamin
256 E. Jackson St.
New Holland, PA, 17557
PHONE: (717) 538-0866	      E-MAIL: jbenj@sas.upenn.edu **** jdb354@drexel.edu

PROFESSIONAL SUMMARY

I have begun studying in a Full-Stack (i.e., front-end and back-end technology instruction) Computer Coding “Bootcamp” through the University of Pennsylvania and Trilogy Educational Services. My graduation date from this program is in early August, 2020. I intend to pursue a career in this field, although the capacity in which I will so so remains to be seen, be it as a front-end, back-end, or full-stack developer, among other options.

My aim is to enter a challenging and fulfilling career in this exciting and ever-developing field. Presently, I enjoy the designing aspects of applications and websites. However, I intend to become proficient in vital back-end technologies as well. Ultimately, I would love to implement all of the skills that I am developing.

Until and including the present, I have been an English Language Instructor with expertise in reading, writing, listening, and speaking instruction, with a successful track record of strong student reviews year after year, in addition to positive in-class observations from various colleagues. 
I possess a varied professional career, beginning with secondary instruction, including a start-up charter school, continuing to higher education instruction. 

INSTRUCTIONAL HIGHLIGHTS

Educational: Individually manage logistics of numerous courses, including, but not limited to, attendance, maintenance of grades, and implementation of various requisite assignments; well-versed in providing assessment to students, both formatively and sumatively; identify students’ deficiencies in their language proficiencies and work to create unique plans to overcome them.
Relational: Provide sensitive cultural information to students from disparate international locations in order to lessen the effects of culture shock; play the role of liason and mediator when cultural and linguistic misunderstandings arise; foster an environment that is student-centered and hinges on tolerance towards, appreciation for, and acceptance of diverse backgrounds and sensitivities.
Professionally Developmental: Attend formal meetings, presentations, and conferences designed to increase the effectiveness of educators in widely varying aspects; engage in informal, self-driven research and implementation of current best practices in the field.
Cooperational: Interact with colleagues both formally and informally to give and receive feedback regarding the full spectrum of in-class practices that regularly arise.  
Organizational: Constantly hone skills pertaining to the proper maintenance of class records and lesson plans, as well as supplemental resources that are distributed or otherwise shared to aid students’ progress.

PROFESSIONAL EXPERIENCE HIGHLIGHTS

University of Pennsylvania, English Language Program- Philadelphia, PA
	Consistently ranked in the top 10 of American universities, the University of Pennsylvania boasts over 20,000 students, 25% of whom hail from outside of the United States. 
Guest Lecturer – January 2013-present  
•	Plan, manage, and teach a variety of core Reading/Writing and Listening/Speaking courses, as well as a wide variety of elective courses, receiving well above average student reviews in almost all cases.
•	Provide continual formative and summative feedback to students.
•	Attend optional professional development meetings.
•	Regularly check in with Peer Coaches, scheduling observation times and opportunities for feedback and professional growth.

Drexel University — Philadelphia, PA   
	A well-known research university, Drexel has more than 25,000 students, roughly 13% of whom are international.
Adjunct English Professor- January 2010-present
•	Plan, teach, and manage English 101 (Rhetoric in Writing), 102 (Evidence-Based Research in Writing), and 103 (Dystopian Literature in Composition) in the First-Year Writing Program.
•	Provide rigorous student feedback in order to raise levels of proficiency in writing.
•	Formerly taught a wide variety of courses in the English Language Center, including American Culture and Conversation, Listening and Speaking, and Vocabulary Development, among others.

Millersville University— Millersville, PA  	                
	Just outside of Lancaster City, Millersville is a state university known for training highly qualified primary and secondary school educators.
Adjunct English Professor- September 2016-January 2017
•	Planned, taught, and managed Transformational Grammar course.
•	Conducted lectures around Traditional, Structural, and Transformational schools of grammar.
•	Prepared all class presenations.
•	Conducted a one-on-one Winter session with a student who needed to retake the course.
•	Facilitated group discussions on various course topics.
•	Administered exams and provide feedback.

Harrisburg Area Community College— Lancaster, PA  	                
	Provides mostly local, but widely diverse students with a starting point for their college careers.
English as an Additional Language Instructor- September 2012-June 2013
•	Planned, taught, and managed a variety of English Language Learner courses that touched on all four language skills.
•	Created an inclusive, empowering learning environment that treasured learners’ unique backgrounds, especially their first languages.
•	Sought to portray the acquisition of English as a tool for social mobility, dispelling notions of elitism. 
•	Conducted exploration/discovery-based lessons and projects focused on vocabulary, grammar, pronunciation, and writing.
•	Demonstrated active listening and reading techniques to aid student comprehension.
•	Provided focused feedback when students’ pronunciation sufficiently impeded successful communication.

La Academia Partnership Charter School— Lancaster, PA
	Also known as LAPCS, La Academia services mostly at-risk middle and high school students.
ESL Teacher- September 2009-June 2010
•	Implemented a push-in educational model for a population that was 80% non-native English speakers.

Living Word Academy (now Lancaster County Christian School) — Lancaster, PA
	This is a private, interdenominational school in Lancaster County known for its quality education.
Spainsh Teacher (High school)- September 2003- January 2008
•	Planned, taught, and managed all aspects of High School Spanish courses, all levels (1-5).
•	Coordinated various trips as head chaperone and organizer to other cities and countries for educational and volunteering purposes.


Instituto Centro America— Quetzaltenango, Guatemala
	ICA is a Spanish language school, also offering English courses to local Guatemalans.
English as a Foreign Language Teacher- June-July 2005
•	Volunteered as a tutor for Guatemalan EFL students.
•	Helped lead trips and social and language activities to places all over the country.

EDUCATION 
PRESENT

University of Pennsylvania/Trilogy Educational Services, present (2020)- currently pursuing certification as a full-stack computer developer; certification-in-hand August 2020.

COMPLETED

West Chester University, 2010- West Chester, PA; earned a Master’s of Arts in TESL (Teaching English as a Second Language); Cumulative GPA- 4.0/4.0

Millersville University, 2003- Millersville, PA; earned a double major Bachelor’s of Arts in English Linguistics and ESL (English as a Second Language) with a Spanish minor; Cumulative GPA- 3.54/4.0

MISCELLANEOUS WORK EXPERIENCE
Stoner Grille, Lancaster City, PA— June 2018-Present on an as-needed basis
	Bartender

Federal Taphouse, Lancaster City, PA— April 2016-September 2019
	Private Events Bartender and Server

Olive Garden, Lancaster City, PA— September 2000-October 2015
	Server, Bartender

Barny’s Restaurant, Lancaster, PA— Summer 2010
	Server, Bartender

Teen Haven, Lancaster City, PA— 2001-2004
	Youth Counselor

ADDITIONAL SKILLS AND HOBBIES
Developmental Computer Languages and Skills
HTML, CSS, JavaScript, jQuery, API client-side server calls, Node.JS

Systems Expertise
Microsoft Office, Prezi, Canvas, Blackboard, iWebfolio, Turnitin

Languages
Spanish (fluent), some French, and can introduce myself in numerous languages

Hobbies
Billiards, Poker, “Street” Art/Murals, Reading, Fitness

